[Trigger builds remotely]
If want to trigger project built from anywhere anytime then should select Trigger builds remotely option from the build triggers.
In Jenkins "Build Triggers" then select "Trigger builds remotely" finally need to set TOKEN_NAME for "Authentication Token".
Whenever you will hit this URL from anywhere project build will start.
Jenkins_HTTP_URL://Jenkins_IP_ADDRESS:Jenkins_PORT_NO/job/JOB_NAME/build?token=TOKEN_NAME

[Build after other projects are built]
If project depends on another project build then should select Build after other projects are built option from the build triggers.
There will be 3 options need to be select only one.
● Trigger only if the build is stable
● Trigger even if the build is unstable
● Trigger even if the build fails

[Build periodically]
If any changes is happend OR not happend in Source Code Management (SCM) tools like GitHub, Bitbucket, GitLab, ...etc. So the Jenkins job will be continuely keep on triggers periodically based on scheduled cron job.
Triggers the job periodically even if nothing is changed.
After successfully scheduled the project build then the scheduler will invoke the build periodically according to specified duration.
Based on the time interval if any changes is happend OR not happend in SCM tools like GitHub, Bitbucket, GitLab, ...etc then jenkins job will be continuely keep on triggers periodically.

[Webhooks]
Whenever the changes is happend in Source Code Management (SCM) tools like GitHub, Bitbucket, GitLab, ...etc. So webhook in jenkins will start trigger to build the job.
A Webhook is a mechanism to automatically trigger the build of a Jenkins project in response to a commit pushed to a Git repository.
It is an HTTP callback, an HTTP POST that occurs when something happens through a simple event-notification via HTTP POST.
Source Code Management (SCM) tools like GitHub, Bitbucket, GitLab, ...etc webhooks in Jenkins are used to trigger the build whenever a developer commits something to the branch.
If running Jenkins on localhost then writing "https://localhost:8080/XXXXXX-webhook/" will not work because Webhooks can only work with the public IP.
So if want to make localhost:8080 expose public then we can use some tools. In this example, we used ngrok tool to expose my local address to the public.

[Poll SCM]
It will triggers to build the jenkins job in two ways.
Based on the time interval if any changes happend in SCM Git only will be trigger OR else if changes is not happend in SCM Git it won't be trigger. 
● When initializing a jenkins job with scheduling a cron, so based on scheduled cron it will build the jenkins job entirely from scratch very first time. 
● Later it will look for the changes, so whenever the changes is happend in Source Code Management (SCM) tools like GitHub, Bitbucket, GitLab, ...etc. So the jenkins job will be triggers based on scheduled cron job. Then until unless the changes is not happend in SCM it won't triggers the jenkins job.
It periodically polls the SCM to check whether changes were made (i.e. new commits) and triggers/builds the job/project if new commits were pushed since the last build.
After successfully scheduled, the scheduler polls the SCM according to specified duration in scheduler field and builds the project if new commits were pushed since the last build.
